Async Mental Magic v20181207a

1   For the sake of play-by-post, cards have IDs that are public
    information, even when the cards are in players' hands. IDs are like
    a100, where 'a' is the game ID, '1' is the player who owns the card,
    and '00' identifies the individual card. Bot commands are as follows:

! 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 #comment goes here
    > PEEP one or more cards, i.e. make them visible to your team

!! 202 203 204 #Gitaxian Probe
    > FLIP one or more cards, i.e. reveal publicly

!n 105 Gitaxian Probe
    > NAME a card

!u 106
    > Shortcut equivalent to !n 106 Utopia

!dibs
    > Call dibs on controlling the current turn.

!turnover #kill 4/4 if possible, else prioritize 1/1s
    > End control of your turn,
      with directions for assigning combat damage, if needed.

!gameover
    > End the current game. All cards will FLIP.

2   Libraries are inexhaustible.

  2a  Cards that care about the size of a library (e.g. Battle of Wits,
      Doomsday, Traumatize, Leveler) are banned.

  2b  Cards that ask you to reveal cards from a library until you reveal
      one meeting a condition (e.g Tainted Pact, Mind Funeral) are banned.

  2c  If a library would be searched, instead search its owner's sideboard.
      Sideboards contain inexhaustible supplies of Plains, Island, Swamp,
      Mountain, Forest, and nothing else.

  2d  ID'd cards in libraries cease to exist when state-based effects happen.
      (Opt works as expected. The cards returned by Brainstorm and Time Ebb
      are lost.)

  2e  Cards in graveyards cease to exist when state-based effects happen
      UNLESS they're being referenced by something on the stack OR
      a delayed triggered ability. (Kitchen Finks and Loyal Cather both
      work as expected. But you can't cast Zombify in time for it to work.)

  2f  Cards in exile cease to exist when state-based effects happen UNLESS
      they're being referenced by ANYTHING, even themselves (e.g. Suspend).

3   Cards start unnamed, and have mana cost and color, but no other
    characteristics.

  3a  Furthermore, unnamed cards do not match any description involving
      card type. E.g. they can't be chosen for Ostracize or Distress.

  3b  When a card becomes named, the name lasts for the rest of the game.

4   Once per turn, the active player may name and play an unnamed card as:

    Utopia
    Basic Land — Utopia
    (Utopia is an additional land type that exists in Mental Magic games;
     Utopia is not a basic land type.)
    {T}: Add one mana of any color to your mana pool.

  4a  Doing so counts as playing a land, but effects that allow you to
      play additional land in a turn don't let you name Utopia again.

5   While you have control, you may name an unnamed card you own if one of
    the following conditions would be fulfilled after you do so:
     * it would enter face-up onto the stack or the battlefield;
     * it would be spliced onto a spell you're casting;
     * an ability it has would go onto the stack, or a delayed triggered
       ability it has would go onto the stack later;
     * or it would be exiled by an effect that couldn't exile it if it
       stayed unnamed, and which would continue to reference it.
    For example, you name a card when Isochron Scepter exiles it.
    On the other hand, you don't name a card when Elkin Bottle exiles it;
    you name it if and when you play it. And you can't name Transguild
    Courier to pay for Force of Will, but you can use an unnamed card
    that's already blue (or a Transguild Courier that got bounced).

  5a  Some effects exile cards regardless of characteristics, but only
      continue to reference the cards matching some description. For the
      purposes of Rule 5, consider such effects to reference the card(s)
      regardless of characteristics. So you don't name a card when Nivix,
      Aerie of the Firemind exiles it, but you can name it as an instant or
      sorcery card when you want to cast it.

  5b  You may name an unnamed card an opponent owns if an effect you
      control would put that card face-up onto the stack or the battlefield
      under your control, possibly by letting you cast it. This rule trumps
      any rules letting the opponent choose the name.

  5c  The named card must have the same mana cost. Certain mana costs have
      equivalence relations. The transitive property does NOT apply.
      (A=B and B=C don't necessarily imply A=C.)

  5d  A card costing {0} (e.g. Ornithopter) may become a card with no mana
      cost (e.g. lands, Evermind), and vice versa.

  5e  A multicolor card costing at least one non-hybrid colored mana may
      become any multicolor card costing at least one non-hybrid colored
      mana that has the same converted mana cost.

  5f  A card may become any card costing hybrid mana if their mana costs
      would match with some or all of the hybrid mana symbols treated as
      one of their halves, and vice versa. For example, a card costing
      {R}{R}{R}, {2}{R}{R}, {4}{R}, or {6} can become Flame Javelin,
      without restricting how you actually pay if you cast it.

  5g  For the purposes of matching mana symbols, treat phyrexian
      mana symbols as non-phyrexian mana symbols of the same color.
      Unlike the other equivalence relations, this one IS transitive.

  5h  You can cast either half of a split card you name.

6   A previously chosen name can't be chosen again, not even in later games.

  6a  Silver-bordered cards and card mentioning ante are banned.

  6b  Cards that can result in facedown spells or permanents are banned.
      (E.g. Illusionary Mask and cards with Morph.)

7   Only the active player can gain priority, and only as long as he has
    "control of the turn".

  7a  Control turns over at end of turn OR when the non-active player has a
      decision, with more than one option.

  7b  For the purposes of 7a, decisions arising from effects of cards named
      by the non-active player don't qualify. Note that declaring blockers
      is not an effect at all.

  7c  Furthermore, opportunities to name specific cards with specific
      abilities that create the opportunity, such as Guerrilla Tactics or
      cards with Madness, also don't qualify.

  7d  HOWEVER, opportunities to name any card matching certain
      characteristic(s), such as from Burgeoning, do qualify as decisions,
      even if the active player somehow knows the cost(s) of the unnamed
      card(s) and there are no possible cards to name that match those
      characteristics, such as lands in this example. Note also in this
      example that it would somehow have to be a Burgeoning named by the
      active player and controlled by the non-active player, otherwise the
      opportunity would be disqualified by 7b. A more straightforward
      example would be if the active player played Hunted Wumpus.

  7e  Once control is turned over, the non-active player controls her
      decisions and can name cards, but still can't gain priority.

  7f  Ignore Rules 7 and 8 when a "Mindslaver" effect is active.

8   As for uncontrolled decisions, their options are partitioned into the
    following categories: NO_ACTION, SELF, OPPONENT, OTHER, and MYRIAD.

  8a  NO_ACTION is any choice that would qualify as taking no action for
      the ordinary Magic rules purposes of determining whether a player
      would be obligated to break an infinite loop.

  8b  SELF and OPPONENT are choices of one player or one or more of their
      objects over the other(s).

  8c  Anything else is OTHER, except creature types and cardnames not on a
      card currently existing in the game and multiple-digit numbers, which
      are MYRIAD.

  8d  Uncontrolled decisions default to NO_ACTION if possible, else random
      from non-MYRIAD options, else choose the smallest number allowed,
      else pause the game and debate further rules.

  8e  The defaults in 8d can be overridden by specifying which category or
      categories you want which ability to random from, on a per-ability
      basis. Your spec can't apply only to some circumstances, and you
      can't rank the categories, only select one set to try before default.
      Specs are assumed to be until end of game unless otherwise specified.

  8f  As an exception to the above, the active player, before turning over
      control, may specify directions in unlimited detail for ordering
      blockers and assigning combat damage.

  8g  Specifications and directions are public information.

